TP 2 (#5)
Zenika/trainingclazz-k8s: tp/tp2-deployment.md

# Lab 2 

> Deployments allow you to manage ReplicatSets and Pods. With this resource, you'll be able to update quicly and easily your applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Deployments](https://kubernetes.io/fr/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) allow you to manage [Pods](https://kubernetes.io/fr/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod/). With this resource, you'll be able to update and scale quickly and easily your applications.
```
Je ne parlerai pas des Replicaset à ce stade

> From now on, we'll be interacting with the cluster thanks to the `kubectl` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From now on, we'll be interacting with the cluster thanks to the [`kubectl` command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands).
```

To do that, we're going to *apply* the yaml descriptor [tp2-deploy-whoami.yaml](./tp2-deploy-whoami.yaml) :
```bash
kubectl apply -f tp2-deploy-whoami.yaml
```

As you can see in the yaml, this descriptor will create a deployment called **whoami**. This deployment is going to control **3 pod replicas** based on the whoami docker image.

## Check

* Check that the deployment was successfully applied 
```bash
kubectl rollout status deploy whoami
# It should print the following 
deployment "whoami" successfully rolled out
```

* List all your deployments
```bash
kubectl get deploy
# It should print something similar to below 
NAME     READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
whoami   3/3     3            3           5m4s
```
Here you can see your `whoami` deployment. You can also see the number of replicas currently running.

* Get the details of that deployments
```bash
kubectl describe deploy whoami
```
This commands allows to get more info about your deployment, especially the number of replicas and the pod template.

> * List the replicatSets and the pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* List the pods
```

```bash

> kubectl get rs,po

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get po
```

# It should print something similar to below 

> NAME                                      DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
> replicaset.extensions/whoami-66688d8f77   3         3         3       14m
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

NAME                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/whoami-66688d8f77-7cg4r   1/1     Running   0          14m
pod/whoami-66688d8f77-mh946   1/1     Running   0          14m
pod/whoami-66688d8f77-w9pxj   1/1     Running   0          14m
```

> Here you can see that a replicaset was generated and, attached to it, 3 pods as requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can see that 3 pods were created as requested.
```
